okay um hi hi everyone sorry
sorry to keep you waiting um so I I
would like to start the next the next
version of next edition of neural
networks for NLP are did anyone have any
first did anyone have any questions
about the material last time or class
for me after stuff like that so I got a
couple questions on Piazza so I
encourage you to ask questions there and
more etc um so anyway then this time I'm
going to talk a bit about a simple
exercise which is predicting the next
word in a sentence this is also known as
language modeling I'm going to talk
about language modeling itself but I'm
also going to use this as a general way
to introduce a lot of the tricks that we
use for training neural networks and I
think if you've used neural networks
before a lot of these will be familiar
to you but you might not be using all of
them so you can it will be useful if you
haven't used neural networks before you
can use this as a recipe of things that
you should be doing when you train when
you train your neural networks for an
Okie so um this is the thing I showed
last time so are these sentences okay we
have a bunch of different sentences and
maybe the first one and the last one are
good English and the others are not
and so basically language modeling is
the task of determining this by
calculating the probability of a
sentence and because I assume everybody
here has taken in that ulty class before
you know this formula where basically we
can calculate the probability of a
sentence X by multiplying the
probability of all the words in the
sentence like this according to the
chain rule and so that's the next word
and these are the contexts that we're
making our prediction
um so the big problem here is how do we
predict this word by word probability
how do we predict the next word and if
we can do this we can calculate the
probability of all of our sentences so
this is just review from your previous
MLP class that just in case people have
not have not seen this before but the
way we did this most of the time up
until a few years ago is basically with
count based language models including
mostly angry at models so the way we do
this is first we generally make an
approximation so instead of calculating
using the context all the way back to
the beginning of the sentence we use the
previous n minus 1 words so if it's I
giving blank then if we're using a
trigram model we'll use only the past
just 2 words which you should already
know and then the way we calculate this
as we count up the number of times we've
seen giving up and then we count up the
number of times we've seen giving us
something and uses to calculate the
probability of something and then we do
stuff like adding smoothing to deal with
0 counts so we might interpolate the
current probability estimate with the
current maximum likelihood probability
estimate with one of lower order and
then we do more fancy things like
modified necessary
Canessa serenades smoothing where we
also modify the counts of both the
maximum likelihood estimates of global
order accounts etcetera so this is all
familiar to people right ok so we're not
going to do this we're going to do
something else oh but first first I'll
talk about evaluation so evaluation um
there's a number of ways we evaluate
language models you can
with log-likelihood so you take the the
log-likelihood of all of the words in
your test corpus so calligraphy
calligraphy e test is your test corpus
and then e uppercase e is a sentence in
it sorry this was x before but and i'm a
machine translation person and we write
our target sentences is e so forgive me
if I switched notation yeah we also
often calculate per word blog likelihood
so this is good because it it normalizes
over a different size corpora and you
can roughly compare corpora with
different numbers of words you can also
also call this per word entropy in which
case instead of taking the log of e we
take mod two and we do the - so entropy
what what is the reason why we would
take log two instead of log eat yeah
exactly so it's the number of bits that
you would need to compress the thing
using this language model if you were
using something nice like arithmetic
coding or something like that and then
perplexity so this is this is equal to
two to the entropy or two to the
negative word blog likelihood or e to
the negative word log likelihood and
what what is the definition of
perplexity or like what what is the
interpretation of perplexity
yeah that's pretty its how surprised you
are but also like more accurately right
yeah basically it's it's more or less
the average number of times you would
have to guess to get the correct answer
so if you guess from your top
probability one and walk down the
probabilities you would have an average
of n guesses before you got the cards
that might not be completely correct in
all cases but it is it's a pretty good
approximation another reason why people
use this is it looks bigger than entropy
so it's easy to publish papers if you
have perplexity days but well we'll
ignore that for now um so what can we do
with language models we can do a variety
of things we can score sentences so this
is the more practical of the two things
if we're just talking about language
models so we have a speech recognition
system that outputs 10 hypotheses and we
need to know which one looks best or a
machine translation system and we use
this to score them score the hypotheses
based on how good they look or if you
want to play around with language models
and see what they think about language
then you can also generate sentences so
while you didn't choose end of sentence
symbol you calculate the probability you
sample a new word from the probability
distribution and you continue to do this
and you can get random sentences
generated so this time we'll try we'll
try both of these but we'll try it using
neural networks and Engram models have
problems they are actually very very
good and they were very very hard to
beat for a long time as a baseline but
they do have that you have their
problems and they cannot one of them is
said they can't share his strength among
similar words so if we have she bought a
car she purchased a car she bought a
bicycle she purchased a bicycle car and
bicycle mean kind of the same thing
button purchased mean kind of the same
thing but you have no concept of this so
if you've never seen purchased a bicycle
then you would never you would not get
any gain from your model based on them
seeing the other ones you cannot
condition on context with intervening
words so dr. something Smith is a pretty
common and Graham basically so dr. with
something in the middle and then Smith
is is a good indication that this is
correct but actually if you get a rather
unusual name like Gertrude or something
like that you would just fall back to
your unit gram probability and lose all
information there um they also cannot
handle long distance dependencies so if
you have for tennis class you wanted to
buy his own something you know it's
probably racket or tennis balls or or
uniform or something like that on the
other hand for programming class he
wanted to buy his own rackets you'd be
wondering what he was doing in
programming class
so um each of these has solutions a
battery of solutions and count based
models so we have class-based language
models which allow you to share
information among classes we have skip
gram language models so before skip gram
from word Tyvek which some people might
have heard of there was another meaning
of skip gram which was you skip over a
single word and predict using the second
second to previous word so we had these
and for long distance dependencies there
was a whole battery of solutions called
cache models where you try to repeat the
same word over and over again trigger
models where you try to repeat
corresponding words topic models
syntactic models etc um and there's a
paper which actually I think I forgot to
add to the references called a bit of
progress in language modeling so this is
actually a pun it's literally a bit of
progress in language modeling if when
you measure according to entropy so
teeth it was by a guy named Joshua
Goodman and he basically took a regular
Ngram language model and threw in
all the methods that they knew how to
use at that time and it was quite a bit
of work and you got a a bit of
improvement in entropy a bit of
improvement in entropy is not bad it's
having your perplexity but still it was
quite a lot of work to do something like
that so one of the good things about
neural networks is they give us all of
these things with a model that's much
simpler than the very difficult model
that that Joshua Goodman made you know
ten years ago 20 years ago so the first
thing I'm going to talk about is feature
eyes
- so neural models are feature eyes
models like all neural models are
basically feature eyes models they
calculate features then based on the
features they make predictions of the
words but first I'm going to talk about
a simple variant of this called feature
I used log linear models which were
actually invented by Roni Rosenfeld
who's in the MLD here so I should
probably also add his paper to the
references in case he looks at my class
website just realized I forgot that one
too so but anyway so these feature eyes
models are basically what you do is you
calculate features of context based on
the features you calculate probabilities
and you optimize the future weights
using gradient descent or some other
algorithm so if we have an example this
is kind of my running example of
language modeling we have the words
giving up and we want to predict the
next example here we have the words
we're predicting so these are all the
words in our vocabulary it's a big list
of 30,000 words or 10,000 words or
whatever then we have a bias for each of
these words so this bias is basically
how likely the words are going to be in
general so uh and AH are very likely
normally talk gift and hat are a little
bit less likely then how likely are they
given that the previous word is a so if
the previous word is a then suddenly the
probability of on the goes way down
because you don't have a a or a thought
in your sentences unless you're
explaining about language models like I
just did in my previous sentence so then
we also might have a feature like how
likely are they given that the second
the previous word was giving so if this
is the case things get a little bit more
fuzzy this is the Skip Gramm model that
I talked about before so now we're
skipping one word and predicting the
next one but if it's giving a if it's
giving and then something and that's
some other word then giving something
talk giving something gift is a little
bit more likely than it would be if the
word was not giving so we might be able
to come up with a feature vector where
it slightly increases the probability of
time and so then we have the total score
which is the sum of all of the feature
scores or the sum of all the scores here
and then we use this to calculate the
likelihood of our of our sentence or of
our next where it in sentence so gift
would be two point two that's maybe the
highest and talk would be one point zero
etc so then we take the convert the
scores into probabilities by taking the
exponent and normalizing which is the
softmax function that I talked about a
little bit on Tuesday and we'll be
talking about almost every class until
the end of the we won't be talking about
it but we'll be using it almost every
class until the end of this finishes but
basically this is we take these scores
that we calculated and then
exponentiate them so they're all
positive than we normalize so they all
add to one so basically the Stern's
scores with probabilities and if we do
that to our previous score vector then
maybe maybe this gets a score of 0.4 for
0.329 etc okay so are there any
questions so far is this okay um if you
try hard enough yes
so they improve most when you
interpolate them with Ingram's like
anything else did at the time so until
basically the rmn language model which
we'll talk about later came out there
were very few things that outright beat
engrams there were lots of things that
helped a little when you interpolated
them with engrams but this was another
one of those things and on the
computational hardware they had then
these were actually difficult to train
computer diagrams which is probably why
people didn't use anything else okay so
I will all move on we can explain this
as a computation graph it's a very very
simple computation graph and basically
what we do is we have two two varieties
of lookup parameters where each of these
vectors is sized about is the size of
the output vocabulary so we look up
something forgiving and look up to we
look up something for a and look up once
we have our bias and then we add them
all together to get scores and then we
use this to take the softmax and
calculate probabilities so this looks
actually extremely similar to what we
had in the bag of words sentence
classification yep Tuesday the only
difference between this and the bag of
words sentence classification is we're
actually doing the
we're doing a different different
features based on position of the of the
word so yeah this this is how we would
implement this as it's not a neural
network really because it doesn't have
any nonlinearities and usually we think
of neural networks is having
nonlinearities but uh you can think of
it as a complication um so I've been
saying lookup since the very since the
very beginning of the class I should do
a little clarification there was also a
clarification in you out Goldberg's book
about this about dense versus sparse
vectors so look up essentially can be
viewed as grabbing a single vector from
a big matrix aboard embeddings or a big
matrix of vectors representing something
or other so here is the example we have
a matrix where each column corresponds
to a word and each row corresponds to
the size of the vector in our case now
this is the size of the output
vocabulary later it will be a different
size and then if we look up two we
basically grab the third column if we're
doing zero indexed if we're doing
something zero indexed or the second
column if we're doing something one
indexed but we grab a column and and
this is our vector that we'll be using
there's another way you can look at this
you can also view this as multiplying by
a one hot vector so a one hot vector is
a vector where you have zero zero one
zero zero zero zero zero zero for the
rest so these are both mathematically
absolutely equivalent the only reason
why it's maybe better to think of the
first one is for a computational reasons
so this you if you actually do a matrix
multiply this is a huge waste of time so
we do the first one and in in dinette
and other neural network libraries
usually they have something like lookup
parameters or an embedding or embeddings
in those
usually use the first approach yeah yes
but it will still be slower than doing
the first one I think because sparse
matrix is more generalized but I think
it would be reasonably reasonably fast
um another another reason which I'm
going to talk about a little bit later
is that when you update the gradient
when you calculate the gradients and do
update of parameters when you do
parameter update if you do it the first
way you can keep track of the ones that
you used it's easier to keep track of
the ones that you used and only update
the ones that are that were used and
that's a huge gain on CPU it's not a
very big data on GPU but Dyna does this
natively by default and on CPU so that's
another thing that can help a lot if he
has a big embedding clue yeah so
anything else yeah
oh okay so look up you're talking about
the previous slide right here yeah so
basically um we are defining two
different sets of parameters so each set
of parameters we can view this as a
matrix where the number of rows is the
size of the vocabulary and the number of
columns is decisive is also the size of
the vocabulary and if we only had one of
them regardless of which position giving
and a came in you would get the same
values but if we have two different
separate ones if the values will be
different based on whether giving is the
second previous word or the previous so
that that's the you could view it that
way also yeah
um any any other questions okay so I I
already skipped to the next one so when
we're training a model to train we
calculate a wast function so a loss
function is basically a measure of how
bad our previous our previous
predictions are so when we train our
model we train it to reduce the loss
function so I mentioned the words the
stochastic gradient descent before is
how we're training our model and
basically the reason why it's the gastic
gradient descent is we want to descend
to a lower point in our loss function so
this will generally or almost always be
a positive number that we want to reduce
to zero as we do training or reduced it
as close to zero as possible and then
the most common loss function for a
probabilistic model is negative log
likelihood so basically what negative
log likelihood is is if element three or
zero index two is the correct answer we
grab the third example here we take the
negative log and this gives us 1 point 1
1 2 and then we will be calculating our
gradients in order to reduce this
so yeah we do perimeter update we
calculate the the derivatives using back
propagation like I talked about last
time and we do a simple update like this
or we can do a simple update like this
so this is Theta will be modified by DL
D theta but multiplied by alpha which is
our learning rate and adjusting your
learning rate is super important if you
have a too big learning rate training
explodes if you have a too small
learning rate training takes forever or
doesn't ever get anywhere useful so if
you're just using this simple stochastic
gradient descent it's very important to
pick your initial learning rate so that
that's that this is kind of all basics
that if you've used neural networks
before you probably know already but
it's if you haven't used them very much
before it's important also another thing
this kind of goes along with count based
language models but it's a little bit
more important when you're talking about
neural language models so you need to
choose a vocabulary of the things that
you're going to be predicting and also
the things that you're going to be using
as input to your model like word
embeddings so we have a concept of
unknown words and basically the reason
why these unknown words are necessary is
number one we don't have all the word
words in the world in our training data
so if we get a new sentence and it has a
word that we've never seen in the
training data we need to treat it
appropriately
the second reason and this is exclusive
or mostly exclusive ly a problem of
neural models which is that large
vocabularies require more memory and
computation time to do so this is
particularly important in the softmax
layer because in the softmax layer we do
this big matrix multiply and that matrix
multiply we can't really avoid
unless we do something tricky I'm going
to or I or more accurately Taylor is
going to talk about the tricky things we
do next Thursday but um for now just
assume that the softmax takes a lot of
time to calculate and then there are a
number of common ways to choose a number
of unknown words so basically we we
either do a frequency threshold where we
we make all unknown words less than or
equal all words less than or equal to
one unknown in the training data where
we can have a ranked threshold where we
take the top n words which is pretty
common I'm going to give some examples
on penn treebank data later in the penn
treebank that like standard penn
treebank version that people use has the
top 10,000 words be in the vocabulary
and everything else beyond though just
as a quick aside um usually as usually
as our unknown word token we do this we
couple brackets on either side of UNK
one time in my code or the code that
some people's hear we're also developing
we had it as uppercase UNK but this
makes University of Nebraska Kearney an
unknown word so for the people in
Nebraska please please make sure you put
brackets around it like this so they
don't get there to call it junk okay
so I'm one really really important thing
when you're talking about language
models is when you do a valuation you
have to use the same vocabulary for all
the models you're evaluating or with one
small qualification so the vocabulary
must be the same over the models you
compare or more accurately all of the
models must be able to generate the test
set so what this means is you could it's
okay if they can generate more than the
test set but it's not okay if they can
generate less than that has set so if
you have
if you have one model with the
vocabulary like this if you have one
model with the vocabulary like this
which is a subset but for some reason
the entire test set is covered by this
subset then that's okay but it's not
okay if you can't generate this stuff in
the test set so for example um you could
compare a model that had some sort of
character based generation component to
a word based model but they would just
have to you'd have to make sure but you
couldn't really compare a word based
model to a character based model unless
the word based model can generate all of
the words in the test so I have an
example or were there any questions
about that um what happens then um so
actually people did end up doing this
previously on in what happens is the
model with the smaller vocabulary will
have an unfair advantage and the reason
why is let's say you have something that
is predicting a B UNK
and you have another thing that's
predicting a b c d and and these have a
uniform distribution um if they have a
uniform distribution this model will
have a perplexity of three and this
model will have a perplexity of five so
it's starting out with a disadvantage it
might still win in the long run for
whatever reason but basically this it's
unfair to this yeah
it means any word other than the words
included in the particular yeah yeah um
not if you're evaluating on that test
set then that's that's okay yeah yeah I
think what would be unfair is to look at
your test set when you were making your
vocabulary but if you're not looking at
your test set when you're making your
vocabulary I think in reality this will
never happen if you are if you're using
a if you're using a normal way of
creating the language models so in
general in general you just match the
vocabulary for your word based models
when you're comparing them the only
reason why I said that is because if you
want to compare like word and word plus
character based models sometimes you
might want to do that and if that's the
case then actually the word plus
character based model has a disadvantage
because it's because it has a larger
vocabulary but it also has an advantage
because it can look at the sub word
regularities and it might be able to
give rare words a higher probability
based on like what their shape looks
like so I think when you're just
comparing two word based models you just
compare once with the same vocabulary
[Music]
so yeah um maybe we can talk about this
afterwards but um so here is here's a
coding example which is still very very
small so this is if we want this is a
simple log linear language model so the
first thing we do is we specify the
length of the of the engrams that we
want to cover so in this case I'm using
a trigram model so it will look at the
previous two words as it's doing its
generation um so then we go down a
little bits over here and this is the
boilerplate of vocabulary reading code
that we were using before one one thing
I should mention is now we don't have
tags so we're not reading in tags
we're just reading in words I can show
you I can show you what the data looks
like so if you have ever worked on
language modeling before this data will
look very very familiar to you because
this is the the very standard the very
standard language modeling data set the
pin treebank data set which you've
probably seen in a lot of a lot of
things this was made the penn treebank
is a big thing of parse trees that was
made a long time ago for syntactic
analysis this is a pre processed version
that was created by tomas vclav who
made the our nn/lm but now it's kind of
a lot of people use this but you'll
notice it already has words uncton here
so you don't have to go and do the uncle
your self normally when you do language
modeling experiments you have to do it
yourself so for the sake of simplicity
I'm skipping skipping that part but this
is actually quite important so then we
go down we read our data and have our
vocabulary we start up dinettes and then
the next thing we do is we define the
model so here what we're doing is we're
defining lookup parameters but we're
defining a array sorry a list of lookup
parameters of size n so as I said before
we head look up one and look up to this
is basically look up one and look up to
here then we have the thing to calculate
the loss function for the entire
sentence here we renew the computation
graph because that's what we do then we
create a history so this history is the
beginning of sentence symbol and this is
what we will use to predict the next
word so when we predict the first word
in the sentence art history is basically
beginning of sentence beginning of
sentence then we have our we have a list
of losses then for each word in the
sentence we calculate the score of its
history this is a function that I
defined above and I'll show you later um
we append this picnic log softmax so
this is our way of calculating the
negative log the negative log
probability and then we modify the
history by removing the previous word
and adding the word that we just
predicted so simple enough I think then
we add all of our lawsuits together and
then we return this then if we look up
here we're going to have a number of
vectors that we add together if you
remember
we added together the bias vector and
then the feature vectors for all of the
things so then we zip through the the
words and the in the look-up tables so
the first word will go to the lookup
table number one the second word will go
to the woke up table number two and we
add this and we add this to our score
vectors then we add together all our
score vectors so this is just the if you
go back here this is just the the
computation graph that I showed you all
the way up sorry that's farther up than
I thought all the way up here so add
this at the beginning then add this and
this so that's all we need to do then
the rest of our our evaluation loop is
down here this is very similar to the
one that I showed you before but this
time instead of evaluating the accuracy
on the Deb set we just evaluate the
reply or the log likelihood or
perplexity on the dev set so that's all
we do and then if we want we can try to
run this and you can try to run this as
well on your local environment if you'd
like
and we can see that training for this is
much training for this is much slower
than the one that we had before but it
will probably show up in a little bit
because it's churning through five
thousand sentences or something like
that so I'll let that running is a
continued explanation or take questions
um are there any are there any questions
about this related stuff through
nope
okay cool so I will move on I'll move on
and if you're if you're interested you
can take a look at the code there
okay
so um so now I think it's worth going
back in thinking of what problems of our
previous model that we've solved now so
if you think about it what I talked
about before was we can't share strength
among similar words we cannot condition
on intervening words and we cannot
handle long distance dependencies so the
model we have now is a is it solved the
first problem anybody who says yes who
says no it's a pretty good turnout and
then there's like seventy percent of
people who aren't quite sure so the
answer here is is no it hasn't done this
in the reason why it hasn't done this is
because we don't we're still remembering
correspondences between a single word in
the context and a single word in the
output so we don't have any concept of
sharing yet but that's what get to it
what about the second one connect
condition on the context of intervening
words who says yes who says no okay this
time this time 100% accuracy so yeah we
did solve this one and that is we solved
it because we're directly using the the
previous context the second previous
context and then the final one I don't
know if I even need to ask this but who
thinks that we solve long-distance
context who thinks that we haven't okay
yeah so the reason why we haven't is
because we were still only using the two
previous words we're not using we're not
using any information about the words um
so yeah so let's move on to the next so
we'll move beyond linear models because
it
what we do in this course so linear
models can't learn feature combinations
as I mentioned before so some examples
of something this could not handle or
this is an example of something this
could not handle so let's say we have
farmers eat steak farmers eat a cows eat
steak cows eat hay
so this is very much like the this is
very much like the combination of love
not love hate hate not hate that I
showed from the previous time so here
the next word is steak only if it's
farmers and eat neither farmers farmers
itself and eat itself are not indicative
of steak being correct as you can see
from the example hay farmers eat hay or
sorry actually maybe I mean maybe this
wasn't entirely Oh I've used this
example several times and I just
realized that it's probably not the best
example
so to give another to give another
example it could be let's see
farmers farmers cultivate hay or
something like that so it would have to
be farmers and cultivate in order for it
for hate to be correct that's actually
also not a good the best example in
contrast so sorry all fix I'll fix the
slides here but anyway there there are
these features where two things in the
context need to be correct in order for
your prediction to be accurate so and
linear models cannot learn these these
model combinations so what can we do one
thing that we could do is we can add
combinations as features as individual
features so what we do is we remember
another single vector for farmers eat
cows eat farmers
farmers eat cows eat farmers cultivate
and so all previous buy grams will get a
feature vector of their own and if
that's the case you could remember you
know things like this and solve this
problem but the problem here is this
would give you a feature space explosion
so now instead of having features the
size of your vocabulary times the size
of your vocabulary it would be size of
vocabulary time size of vocabulary time
size of vocabulary and that's very
quickly going to become unmanageable
both from computational and learning
perspective so of course we use neural
networks instead so neural language
models what neural language models look
like is this we have a giving a we do a
lookup we do another lookup and this
time we actually only have one look up
we don't have look up one and look up to
and I will explain why in a moment um
then we run this through a neural
network layer which is a find transform
or in other words multiplied by a matrix
and a vector and you run through a
non-linearity and then we multiply this
by a matrix a weight matrix we add a
bias and we get scores and then we turn
the scores into probabilities like we
always do oops in my end sorry my
animation is broken but so one of the
really good things about this framework
is it basically solves our problems of
not being able to share strength among
similar things and it does it in the
number of ways that are very then are
very useful so I have a purple blue and
red here with in so the red example here
for each of the words in our contacts
context we have giving up here and
the words in the context basically get
their own vector and if the vectors are
similar when these words are used in the
context they will they will have a
similar effect on the output so for
example the vectors of a and the might
be might be very similar here which
means that things that follow on though
will be given similar probabilities like
also maybe farmers farmers and ranchers
might get a similar vector or cows and
cattle might get a similar vector or
something like that um also similarly um
in our softmax basically when we do a
matrix multiply before our soft maps
each row in this weight vector
corresponds to a word in the output
vocabulary um these word these rows in
the in the matrix because each word
corresponds to something in the output
vocabulary you can basically view them
as word embeddings on the output side so
these these are vectors representing
words on the output side these vectors
are similar for certain words those
words will be likely to appear in the
same context so again maybe farmers and
ranchers would be would have similar
vectors here you see then the final
place where these where these models can
share strengths is in the contexts here
so basically what this 10h layer is
doing is it's taking all the words in
your input it's combining them together
into a smaller number of basically
contexts information pieces of
information about the context and these
could contain things like combination
features like farmers eat farmers eat
ranchers eat farmers consume renters
consume my Oh correspond to a single
node in this vector or some small
combination of notes in this vector I
mean because of that it can learn
combination features that also
generalize across words
so this is while this model is
relatively simple it's a very powerful
way to basically do the things that we
would expect from a class-based language
model or whatever else yes so in a way
these neural models can basically solve
the problems of handling things with
similar words and they can also do
things like similar contexts even if the
words themselves are a little bit
different so so these are simple and
great so I have some code here I won't
actually run this code um you can see
this is still processing this was a lot
faster when I wasn't recording video so
the video is is killing my training
again but anyway so just to look at the
look at the code very briefly we can see
this
this is again very similar to our
this is very similar to our torah code
from our log linear model with a few
changes
basically the only changes here are now
we have two extra parameters we have the
parameters which are the embedding size
so this is the size of the word
embeddings and then we also have the the
hidden layer size and here I just set
them both to 128 because because it made
training obese recently fast you could
probably tune these better um oh by the
way do people know why I always use 128
or or 256 or something like that yeah
so so for parallel the answer there was
prepare Lal processing it's easier if
it's a power of 2 and GPUs especially
have 64 threads or 128 threads or
something like that so they really like
powers of 2 and will make will do the
most efficient on those so it's not just
because I like binary numbers it
actually has a reason the this so here
we can look very quickly basically now
we have a word embedding vector here we
take in words in the vocabulary um and
then we have an embedding size here then
we have a matrix multiply and add a bias
vector before this and the matrix
because we're concatenated the
embeddings together we have the input B
to end times the embedding size then we
also have a soft Max which takes in the
hidden layer and and outputs things and
then down here on lines 44 through 54
these are this is our whole thing where
we look up the word embeddings we
concatenate them together we calculate a
hidden layer by doing an affine
transform in @nh and then we do another
affine transform and and return the
scores here and then everything else is
the same within this file so
everything else it's the same between
linear models and so I won't run this in
the interest of time you can see by my
other log linear model that was running
is now giving after the first iteration
it's getting a perplexity of 373 does
anybody know what know what perplexity
should be on the on the penn treebank no
60 yeah so 60 is if you try really
really hard the standard concern a
Engram language model got got 140 on the
penn treebank which is kind of funny
because if you remember joshua Goodman's
paper was a bit of progress in in
language modeling and a bit of progress
is equal to is equal to having your
perplexity so you take the connoisseur
in a language model which was 140 and
the Joshua Goodman paper got a bit of
progress so that's probably about 70 and
now we have alice teams which also give
us about 72 to 60 to 72 so now we
similarly have a bit of progress or
maybe a little bit more than a bit of
progress in the language modeling as
well so it'd be interesting to go back
and try all the things that he did back
then and see and see how competitive it
was with the lsdm language models but
that's a lot of work so if you like
doing lots of work ago go ahead and do
it I think it'd be it'd be interesting
okay so let's go back to the let's go
back to the slides and that's it for
introducing the model oh I have one I
have one additional thing this is not a
thing that everybody does but it's super
simple and potentially useful for people
so I thought I'd introduce it but um
recently a lot of people have been
sharing the the input and output
embeddings and what this means is
basically the in language models the the
weight matrix before the softmax is
equal to the number of or the rows are
equal to the number of words so instead
of having separate parameters for the
inputs we can also just pick a row from
that from that softmax matrix and the
nice thing about this is the softmax
matrix it actually has a lot of
parameters in it so this can have the
size of our model and it also makes
learning easier if we assume that the
input the words on the input side in the
words in the output side should what
compartment we the same so I know a few
people who have gotten good results with
this and the few papers have also
reported that as well so if you want a
simple programming exercise based on the
stuff we did in the class today you
could try implementing this in in the LM
example yeah so what you would do is you
would delete the input embeddings and
instead pick a row from the subjects
matrix
okay so I'll talk about training tricks
relatively quickly so training Trix
basically there's a bunch of little
things that make a big difference when
you're training neural networks the the
first one is shuffling the training data
this was actually already implemented in
my previous example but what we do is
basically before every iteration we
shuffle the order of the examples that
were we're training over and the reason
why is because we're using stochastic
gradient descent stochastic gradient
methods which means we step through the
data one by one so what if we one by one
and do parameter updates so what if we
have the sentence I love this sentence
so much at the end of the training data
50 times like we literally concatenate
this to the end of our penn treebank
training data and then we aren't
shuffling the data what happens is we
get a language model that really loves
the sentence I love this sentence so
much
so it will give a very high probability
to the sentence and it will give a low
probability to almost everything else
and the way we solve this is just by by
randomly shuffling the data and sorry
not at each time step at each iteration
through the data and actually
theoretically for stochastic gradient
methods what we assume is we assume
we're randomly picking data every time
so this is kind of a approximation to
that but it's a good one so other
there's also other options for
optimizers you probably heard about a
lot of these in papers if you've worked
with neural nets
there's STD with momentum so the idea
here is that SGD basically is taking a
step in the direction of the gradient
every time and then it's because it's
taking a step in the direction of the
gradient every time if the gradient
changes a lot you get a lot of random
steps in trains kind of unstable so
momentum basically you remember the
gradients from the past time steps to
prevent sudden changes
adda grad is a method that basically
adapts the learning rate to reduce
learning rates for frequently updated
parameters um as an intuitive example of
that for for this neural language model
if you think about it um parameters are
only updated if that particular word
parameters for the lookup anyway are
appeared in that sentence so if you have
a word that appears 5,000 times or 10000
times in your training corpus it will be
updated much much more or many many more
times than one with only five
occurrences so what a degrade does is
when it sees one of those rare words it
takes a big step in parameter space when
it sees one of the frequent words it
takes a small step in the parameter
space so that kind of fixes that problem
and lets you train all the parameters
well however antegrade has a couple
problems one of the problems is is it
monotonically decreases the learning
rate so it tends to get stuck when
you're
so there's a bunch of other methods that
try to fix this um the most popular one
is called atom it's like a degrade but
it keeps a running average of momentum
in gradient variants etc yeah many many
many others there's a reference on the
webpage of a very nice blog post that
basically explains about all of these
and details so you can go there and look
at all the formulas in the explanation
another important thing to do is early
stopping and and/or learning rate decay
so basically because neural Nets have
tons of parameters eventually they were
well over fit our data they will get a
really really good log likelihood on the
training data but they will not
generalize to other things so what one
way we can fix this is we monitor our
performance on a held out data like the
dev set and in stop training when it
starts to get worse another thing that
that helps is to reduce the learning
rate in continued training so when you
get a worse log likelihood on the
development set then you divide your
learning rate in half and then you
continue training after that and smaller
learning rates have smaller tendency to
overfit and they're more stable so this
is good this is absolutely essential if
you're using SGD like simple SGD and for
other methods it still tends to help
yeah so which one to use
um Adam is usually fast to converge and
stable I use it when I just want to try
something out but kind of the the
knowledge that a lot of people
accumulated and recently a paper came
out about this is that regular SGD tends
to do very very well in terms of
generalizations so Adam will over fit
much faster than SGD does so you have a
training curve where Adam basically goes
down like this and then an SGD goes down
like this but eventually eventually
beats out Adam in the end on the demo
so if you have lots of time to wait and
you really want your numbers to be 0.5%
better like if you want to write a paper
or something like that then using SGD is
also another option you should
definitely use learning rate decay so we
tried this on machine translation so
this is actually a counter result to a
lot of what what people what people have
reported before about the STDs so
actually the stuff that I said above you
should take it with a grain of salt this
is kind of the common wisdom but this is
counter to the result that we got here
so basically we did Adam with learning
rate decay and it got better better
results than SGD and converge much
faster as well so I think learning rate
decay is a must
which optimizer works better with it is
still I don't know this is only on
machine translation so other other
applications but the initial learning
rate so this is using learning rate
decay oh so they explain this graph I'm
sorry there's points on this graph and
every point corresponds to a single
learning rate which goes to convergence
and then we then we lower the learning
rate and restart training so we did tune
the learning rate but we didn't tune it
super aggressively so it might be it
might be the case there's also papers
that there's also a paper by Google on
machine translation that just came out
recently that starts with a really low
learning rate then turns it off and then
drops it again which is the opposite I
guess of what you just what you just
said there but who knows there might be
a secret learning rate I think you
should train a neural network to decide
your learning rate for you actually it's
probably that great so um but I think
basically it's a basic learning form you
starting with the default learning rate
and then having it is a pretty good
choice and then if you if you want to
try other things you can as well um
so another thing that really you should
be using for many tasks unless you have
a huge unless you have so much training
data that you don't know what to do what
to do with it is dropout
so most NLP tasks are analysis tasks
anyway you don't have enough training
data because it's expensive to get
people to label training data for you so
in that case they over fit they over fit
very heavily um so what drop dropout
does is it randomly zero outs zeroes out
nodes in the hidden layer with a
probability of P a training time only
and so for example if you have five
nodes in your hidden layer you would
randomly drop a few of them so one thing
to note is because the number of nodes
at training and test time is different
scaling is necessary so what you do is
you for standard dropout you scale the
nodes by P a test time to reduce their
scale to go into account that your to
take into account that you're using all
of them there's also a thing called
inverted dropout which scales by by this
value at training time and then you
don't need to do scaling at test time
and the implementation and dinette uses
inverted dropout if you're using another
toolkit you should just be aware of
which implementation it's using so yeah
the dinah the dinette dropout function
does this automatically so you just need
to use it at training time and not it
doesn't so I have some examples here I'm
looking at the I'm looking at the time
and I realized we only have 10 minutes
left so all this code is on the is on
the class website so you can go and take
a look all of these are tiny tiny
changes to the code but will result in
better results are there any questions
about this yeah
oh so the number of nonzero nodes the
training test is different and the
reason why is because we randomly zero
out notes at training time only the
reason why we don't do it at test time
is based basically a test time we would
like to use all the information that we
have a training time by ziering them out
at training time you can view this is
basically training a whole bunch of
different models you can view it as
training an exponential number of models
and then basically ensemble income to
gather at test time you can read the
paper for for details about that but we
want to use all of the models that we
have the test time which is why we we
don't zero hmm so there are there's one
more trick that I would like to talk
about that's very very very useful if
you want to train your models in a in a
quick manner this is especially
important if your training on GPU but
it's less important if your training on
CPU it still helps a lot on CPU as well
um but basically what the idea is is you
want to combine together similar
operations together and execute them all
at once so so for example let's say you
want to do ten you want to add a vector
of ten elements together
if you or you want to add ten elements
together and you have a choice of either
adding each of the elements together
with a for loop or adding a vector of
elements of those ten elements with
another vector of those ten elements and
on modern hardware especially GPUs but
also CPUs doing ten operations of size
one is much slower than doing one
operation of size ten and so what mini
batching does is it combines together
smaller operations into one
big one so some typical examples of this
would be would be taking a vector of ten
elements or let's say we have a vector
of 100 or no we have a vector of sixteen
elements and we add that together eight
times or something like that which gives
us 128 128 values if we dispatch to the
GPU eight times basically dispatching to
the GPU takes a large amount of time
transferring memory over etc giving the
instruction takes time
so you'll be weighed you'll be waiting a
huge amount of time to do this but if
you combine all of them together and you
have one thing of size 128 and you
dispatch only one time the actual doing
doing the addition will take the same
amount of time it will literally take
the same amount of time so you'll just
be eight times faster if you do that
even for things like matrix multiplies
which take a certain amount of time
matrix multiplies are really really fast
on GPUs so this is essential even on
CPUs people heard of si SIMD
instructions so SIMD instructions are
single instruction multiple data so
basically adding together sixteen floats
is as fast as adding adding one float in
many cases if you use the appropriate
instruction set and everything so even
not CPU it's very very useful to combine
together things into larger thanks so
this is an illustration of what we do so
basically we we take together three
examples of a hidden layer in a neural
network where each one has its own its
own X and what we do is we concatenate
these together into one matrix and we do
a single matrix multiply instead of
three so this is three times faster on
our GPU basically if it's small enough
matrix multiply then this B thing here
we have to do something called
broadcasting where basically we don't
actually make three copies of it and put
it into columns but we we pretend like
we did and then if we do this we can we
can basically do this operation three
times faster than we do normally so the
way you can do this in a model by hand
is basically you group together similar
operations loss calculations for a
single word and execute them all
together um in the case of a
feed-forward language model each word
prediction in a sentence or across
multiple sentences can be batched
together because they all kind of have
the same shape of taking the two
previous words and predicting the next
one for recurrent neural Nets this is
more complicated and we'll probably talk
about this in the recurrent neural
network section um
dinette has special mini batch
operations for lookup and loss functions
everything else in the middle is exactly
the same as if you weren't doing mini
batching so kind of what it looks like
here is we have this where we we would
be doing a lookup at the beginning but
this is basically our feed-forward
language model example we would be doing
lookup of the previous word and lookup
of the next word here and what we do
instead is we take in a vector where we
have basically a set of tuples where
each represents one of the words and we
call this lookup batch function lookup
batch function then the thing in the
middle is exactly the same then we when
we calculate the loss function we also
calculate the loss over and there's an
example of this in the in the code as
well in the code examples as well and
you can see basically what we're doing
is this passing stuff in there I can
show that at the end of class if people
are interested in looking at it but we
only have five minutes so I won't I
won't do that
you can try running the batched versus
unmatched example and you'll get you can
see it's probably about three times
faster on this CPU and it's probably
quite a bit faster than that on the GPU
so the final thing is dinettes and also
tensorflow fold is another example have
the thing called automatic mini batching
tensorflow fold is many automatic mini
batching in a static framework so you
have to kind of learn a special language
to do it
dinette basically what you do is you you
calculate the loss function for for
example three sequences at once you add
them together and then you turn on a
command line flag and it automatically
does this for you so it's pretty easy to
use we have a nice gift that uh that you
have Goldberg made for us so let's see
if it runs
oh this is a PDF which cannot run gifts
hang on one second the slides so anyway
the idea basically is that we're
normally we go in and try to find and
try to find things to mini-batch
together on our own the the engine can
actually do it for us
it can go in in the search search for
things on our search for places where it
can batch things together and so we have
these three things of one of the lengths
and we can run through and we combine
their losses together
by just adding them together and then
the auto matching engine it goes and
finds operations that can be can be done
together so these operations can be done
together
execute them and then it steps through
and finds things that can be executed
together like this and and does this for
you essentially so um this is a little
bit so let me go back let me go back to
the PDF version and the it's a little
bit faster than if you do it or a little
bit slower than if you do it yourself oh
so sorry here's yeah here's the workflow
so for each data point that you want to
do this for you add the data and then
you sum the losses and the forward you
do the forward pass where the auto batch
engine does magic for you and then
backward and then update and we have
some results for this where basically
it's a bit slower than doing it on your
own in kind of the ideal scenario
[Music]
because you know humans are smart we can
go in and do things we can go in and do
things efficiently but it does pretty
well it still gets a factor of 10
increase over not doing batching at all
in the more important thing is it's also
very easy to use in things where
batching is difficult like if you want
to do a bio SEM tagger with character
embeddings added or a trio SEM or
transition based parsing which are some
of the things that we're going to cover
later so um if you want to do manual
mini batching you'll get the best speed
out of that but this is also an option
if you don't want to go through the
trouble for the particular model you're
using um so yeah that is that's all I
have for today and we have one minute
until then classify yes
right so there's two trade-offs um one
is that it is definitely more stable if
you have a larger batch but it's also
easier to fall into local minimum or
local Optima so um stochastic gradient
methods actually can jump out of local
Optima which makes them get better
results sometimes yeah so the question
was is zero deterministic algorithm to
come up with the optimal mini batching
scheme yes but it's np-hard um okay um I
won't keep people over time but uh thank
you and I will I will see you next
Tuesday
next Tuesday we will be talking about
word embeddings